DOCSP-38100: User authentication (#3034)
jenssegers/laravel-mongodb: docs/user-authentication.txt

.. meta::
   :keywords: php framework, odm, code example

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use the {+odm-long+} to modify the ``User``

> model and configure user authentication.

Reviewer: Modifying the User class is a technical solution, not the goal of the developer which is "Storing users in MongoDB when using Laravel's native auth  functionality".

User Model
----------

> By default, Laravel includes an ``App\Models\User`` Eloquent model in your ``app/Models``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Laravel generates the ``App\Models\User`` Eloquent model in your ``app/Models``
```

> directory. You can extend the ``Jenssegers\Mongodb\Auth\User`` class to configure your
> ``User`` model to use the Laravel Auth module, which provides multiple authentication services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directory. You must extend the ``MongoDB\Laravel\Auth\User`` class to configure your
``User`` model to use MongoDB for the Laravel Auth module.
```

To extend this class, navigate to your ``app/Models/User.php`` file and replace the
``use Illuminate\Foundation\Auth\User as Authenticatable`` use statement with the following code:

.. code-block:: php

>    use Jenssegers\Mongodb\Auth\User as Authenticatable;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   use MongoDB\Laravel\Auth\User as Authenticatable;
```

Example
~~~~~~~

The following command creates a controller file called ``AuthController.php``:

.. code-block:: php

   php artisan make:controller AuthController

The ``AuthController.php`` file can store ``login()`` and ``logout()`` functions to
manage user authentication, as shown in the following code: 

.. literalinclude:: /includes/auth/AuthController.php
   :language: php
   :dedent:

Enable Password Reminders 
-------------------------

To add support for MongoDB-based password reminders, register the following service
provider in your application:

.. code-block:: php

   MongoDB\Laravel\Auth\PasswordResetServiceProvider::class

This service provider modifies the internal ``DatabaseReminderRepository``
to enable password reminders.

Example
~~~~~~~

The following code updates the ``providers.php`` file in the ``bootstrap`` directory
of a Laravel application to register the ``PasswordResetServiceProvider`` provider:

.. code-block:: php
   :emphasize-lines: 4

   return [
     App\Providers\AppServiceProvider::class,
     MongoDB\Laravel\MongoDBServiceProvider::class,
     MongoDB\Laravel\Auth\PasswordResetServiceProvider::class
   ];

> 

Author: I'm unsure about these instructions @GromNaN, is this the only step required to enable password reminders?

Reviewer: Yes, I think that's all you need to do. And I would like to get ride of this custom service declaration by making Laravel queries compatibles with MongoDB.

.. meta::
   :keywords: php framework, odm, code example

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to authenticate users stored in MongoDB

> by using Laravel's native authentication functionality. 

Reviewer 2: S: applies throughout

```suggestion
In this guide, you can learn how to authenticate MongoDB users
by using Laravel's native authentication functionality.
```

> Laravel provides a native Auth module that includes authentication services,

Reviewer 2: S: not sure whether this is standard for PHP/Laravel, but I'd guess it helps readability

```suggestion
Laravel provides a native ``Auth`` module that includes authentication services,
```

such as guards that define how users are authenticated and providers that define
how users are retrieved. To learn more about these services, see `Authentication 
<https://laravel.com/docs/{+laravel-docs-version+}/authentication>`__ in the
Laravel documentation.

Modify the User Model
---------------------

By default, Laravel generates the ``User`` Eloquent model in your ``App/Models``
directory. To enable authentication for users stored in MongoDB, your ``User`` model
must extend the ``MongoDB\Laravel\Auth\User`` class. 

To extend this class, navigate to your ``app/Models/User.php`` file and replace the

> ``use Illuminate\Foundation\Auth\User as Authenticatable`` use statement with the following

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``use Illuminate\Foundation\Auth\User as Authenticatable`` statement with the following
```

code:

.. code-block:: php

   use MongoDB\Laravel\Auth\User as Authenticatable;

> Ensure that your ``User`` class extends ``Authenticatable``, as shown in the following code:

Reviewer 2: S: Might help to link this step to the previous one

```suggestion
Next, ensure that your ``User`` class extends ``Authenticatable``, as shown in the following code:
```

.. code-block:: php

   class User extends Authenticatable
   {
   ...
   }

After configuring your ``User`` model, create a corresponding controller. For instructions on

> creating a controller, see the :ref:`laravel-auth-controller` section on this page.

Reviewer 2: I: [on/about](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#std-term-about:~:text=Use%20information%20about%2C%20not%20information%20on.)

```suggestion
After configuring your ``User`` model, create a corresponding controller. To learn how to
create a controller, see the :ref:`laravel-auth-controller` section on this page.
```

Example
~~~~~~~

> The following code demonstrates a ``User.php`` file that extends the ``MongoDB\Laravel\Auth\User``

Reviewer 2: S: shows? displays? "demonstrates" is more active to me

```suggestion
The following code shows a ``User.php`` file that extends the ``MongoDB\Laravel\Auth\User``
```
